two hostages are back in Israel after
being freed in an overnight raid in Gaza
Israel says they were rescued in a
special operation in the southern city
of Rafa the two men were kidnapped by
Hamas during the October 7th Terror
attacks on Israel they were flown by
helicopter for medical checkups to a
hospital near Tel Aviv where they were
also reunited with family
members reunited with their families
Louise ha and F Simon mman were rescued
by Israel's military and security forces
during overnight raids in
Rafa after 128 days held captive by
Hamas in
Gaza they are currently receiving
treatment in a hospital where they are
both said to be in a stable
condition for their families the sense
of relief is mixed with concern for the
hostages still being held in
Gaza luckily for us as a family there
were saved tonight but I must say that
the job is not done we are happy
today but it's not we didn't win it's
just another step towards bringing all
the other 134 hostages back home and it
doesn't matter if it's babies women men
Elder people everybody must come back as
soon as
possible Israeli air strikes devastated
parts of Rafa
overnight
flattening
buildings and destroying a
mosque dozens of Palestinians were
killed and many more taken to hospital
with serious
injuries we were at home when the air
strikes were going on I told my mother
that I wanted to use the bathroom as she
was was awake suddenly all the walls of
the bathroom and all the water
containers above it collapsed on
me most of the roughly 1.4 million
Palestinians currently in Rafa fled from
other parts of
Gaza they were trying to escape the
intense fighting in other areas and the
city was designated a safe zone for
civilians by the Israeli Army but recent
Israeli strikes on Rafa have elim ated
any sense of security for Palestinians
there and we are now joined by Colonel
Peter Lerner he's a spokesman for the
Israeli Defense Forces and joins us from
uh Tel Aviv Colonel has the Israeli Army
now begun a ground offensive in rafar
and what goal has the IDF been ordered
to achieve
there good afternoon agad indeed um this
morning we conducted a very unique
Special Forces operation in Russ
uh this is not the beginning of a ground
operation in uh the southern town but
indeed it is part of our pursuit to
release the hospitals to bring the
hostages to bring each and every one of
them home um and in order to dismantle
and Destroy Hamas who have established
their strongholds throughout the Gaza
Strip in a way that jeopardizes Safety
and Security to everyone um our
operations are ongoing throughout the
Gaza Strip this morning in kanun Al in
the north um but no this is not the
beginning of the ground operation in
Rafa uh we're going to talk about the
ongoing operation in a moment but first
I would like to ask you the the Israeli
Army has thankfully freed two hostages
uh today that makes three that have been
freed in raids the majority of the freed
hostages more than a 100 were released
in swaps during a ceasefire uh doesn't
that show that that's more
effective
um our operations have uh two clear
goals um in mind first of all to release
the hostages to bring them home uh to
create the conditions to bring them home
either through diplomacy or through
operations as we conducted um in the
early hours of this morning and the
second goal is to dismantle and Dy
destroy Hamas as a governing authority
of the Gaza Strip a terrorist entity
that has utilized the powers of
government so of course from our
perspective as we push forward an
increase
the pressure on Hamas we are creating
the conditions for release whether it be
through um negotiations and diplomacy or
through the operational activity as we
conducted this morning um unfortunately
we have to ask ourselves or remind
ourselves perhaps better we would not be
in this situation of Hamas hadn't
abducted 240 people uh and they are
still holding this morning this
afternoon
134 um people the families of these 134
people have been torn to pieces
over the last four months it's time for
them to come home every last one of them
let's talk about the civilian population
uh in Rafa more than a million people
are said to be there civilians uh where
should they go for
shelter goad the government has
instructed the IDF to create a plan of
operation um in order to alleviate and
evacuate civilians if we do indeed
mobile mobilize and I would say if the
government instruct us to do to mobilize
then we will be prepared to do so as we
have throughout this war evacuated
people on mass um from the areas of uh
combat the reality of course is one
should ask ourselves is why are we
conducting battle in the first place we
could end this war tomorrow all it takes
is to release the hostages and for Hamas
to unconditionally
surrender conrete steps allow me to
interrupt you there what concrete steps
will you be taking to avoid civilian
casualties as I said once the government
if the government instructs us to
mobilize into the south then we will
have as we have in the past conducted a
very elaborate and I would say
unprecedented plans of Civilian
evacuation from the combat zones it's
just how we've operated throughout the
last four months um we know how to do it
we have done it in the past uh if the
government approves that operation or
instructs us to mobilize we'll know how
to do it now Israel's biggest Ally the
US has expressed a clear opposition to
an a large scale operation in Rafa um is
that something you take into
consideration absolutely we're very very
attentive to our allies uh whether it's
the us or others the the what they're
saying and we are taking it into
consideration of course that does not
mean that our goals will not be achieved
there is no alternative to bringing the
hostages home and there is no reality
where Hamas remains a terrorist entity
terrorist government on our doorstep
especially due to the fact that they
keep they have promised time and time
again that given the opportunity they
will repeat the atrocities of the 7th of
October so our only route forward is for
Hamas to be um crushed to be removed
from control and to get the hostages
home um Hamas have and and if we learned
anything from this operation in the
early hours of this morning where were
they holding um Lou har and and Fernando
marman where were they holding them in a
residential area on the second story of
a building where there are civilians
around when we mobilized in when we came
with our special forces we breached the
house we went into the complex um a
gunfight broke out uh was uh conducted
extensive fire from all directions from
the civilian Arena against the forces so
we understand exactly how Hamas is
operating where they are operating for
and why they have act actually no regard
for human life Israeli or
Palestinian the spokesman for Israel's
Defense Forces Colonel Peter larner
thank you very
much good
day now let's bring in shy Lo she's the
communications adviser for the
humanitarian organization Norwegian
Refugee Council and joins us from
Jerusalem Shina Israel carried out more
air strikes in Rafa overnight and some
say a ground operation has started can
you give us a more insight into the
situation on the ground there
well as far as we know a ground
operation has not yet started uh but
there were these intense raids last
night I spoke to one colleague this
morning who said he didn't get any sleep
uh obviously hearing the the in in
increased intensity of the air strikes
in Rafa caused Widespread Panic and fear
amongst the the nearly million and a
half people who are seeking shelter
there um many of whom have been
displaced multiple times it's just a
reminder that there simply is no safe
place in the Gaza Strip for Palestinian
civilians that any place can be targeted
Rafa uh as you probably recall was where
Palestinians were told to flee uh over
the last four months because it was
allegedly safer uh but we've seen
through the events of last night that
that really there is simply no safe
place in Gaza and and civilians are
fearful throughout the entire Gaza Strip
um are your people on the ground seeing
any attempt by civilians to flee this
area as of now we haven't heard about
civilians fleeing but I think that's in
part because there simply is no place to
flee to uh Central and Northern Gaza
have been uh the sites of of increased
of intense fighting uh Northern Gaza has
been basically reduced to Rubble there
are no facilities uh or accommodations
they're able to to uh host uh people
fleeing for safety on top of that
there's the the added risk of unexploded
ordinances throughout all of Gaza but
particularly in the north where there
was quite heavy air strikes uh early on
in the first few months of of this
escalation uh and on top of that people
have fled multiple times they have
nothing with them nothing they have very
little belongings and so uh I think our
our worried about fleeing and having no
safe place no shelter to sleep in uh and
on top of that all Aid is coming in
through the Rafa Crossing and and caram
Shalom Crossings in the South and so
people in need of desperately in need of
assistance clean water food medicines uh
want to be where the aid is which is in
in southern Gaza mostly concentrated in
the Rafa area now what are your
colleagues and other humanitarian
workers actually able to do under these
conditions you know it's really Limited
in terms of our ability to respond first
of all we have uh nowhere near enough
Aid getting in to to meet just even the
basic humanitarian needs of the
population there are entire areas of
Gaza that are largely cut off from
humanitarian assistance because it
simply is unsafe uh or uh to go there or
agencies have been unable to to
coordinate their movements to ensure uh
that their staff will be safe while
trying to go and deliver deliver
assistance uh the the needs continue to
outpace the the ability of us to respond
of course we are doing the best that we
can but so long as there are ongoing
hostilities it makes coordination of of
Aid distributions uh very very
challenging that's why the only way that
we'll be able to properly uh accommodate
uh all of these needs is by first and
foremost a a prolonged sustained
ceasefire that uh that that because we
cannot be responding while bombs are
falling over our heads and on top of
that a massive scaling up of the amount
of Aid getting into Gaza which up until
now has been wholly insufficient talking
about the aid getting into Gaza the UN
Agency for Palestinians unra was doing
the bulk of that human humanitarian Aid
work in Gaza before allegations emerged
that 12 of its staff as were involved in
the October 7th Terror attacks on Israel
many donor Nations have subsequently cut
their funding are these Cuts being felt
on the ground
there as of now seems that they that the
cuts have not been felt yet but my
understanding is that unwa anticipates
that they will only be able to carry on
their operations through the end of this
month or early March uh were Ona to to
cease operations there would be a a
massive Gap uh in in the ability to
deliver Aid not only is unwa providing
the bulk of the assistance to
Palestinians uh in Gaza but they also
provide logistical and Technical Support
to humanitarian agencies they pick up
our Aid as it comes in through the Rafa
Crossing and deliver it to our warehouse
they provide all humanitarian agencies
with the fuel that we need to be able to
to run our trucks and and distribute uh
our assistance so without unera I think
that there will be a massive Gap felt
and the and the people who will suffer
the most are of course the innocent
civilians who have been suffering over
the last four months shy Alo there
Communications adviser for the Norwegian
Refugee Council in Jerusalem thank you
thank you very
much thank
you